# Uncover-the-trendiest-topics-in-ML-research-by-helping-of-Natural-Language-Processing

Neural Information Processing Systems  conference is one of the most prestigious yearly events in the machine learning community. At each NIPS conference, a large number of research papers are published.  The attached link for accessing NIPS data =>  https://drive.google.com/file/d/183l8vVkm6OjX34Hi7P6R5oKlpQuHOa47/view?usp=sharing
The CSV file contains information on the different NIPS papers that were published from 1987 until 2017. The data contains 7241 records.  First,  Explored the CSV file to determine what type of data we can use for the analysis and how it is structured. A research paper typically consists of a title, an abstract and the main text. Each paper discusses a novel technique or improvement. In this analysis, focused on analyzing these papers with natural language processing methods.  The main goal of analyzing  a large collection of NIPS research papers from the past decade   was to discover the latest trends in machine learning.  Several techiniques have been used in this project .  Preprocessed  the text data  in order to make them more amenable for analysis.  Implemented regular expression to remove any punctuation in the title. Then   performed lowercasing. Make a word cloud of the titles of the research papers in order to verify whether the preprocessing happened correctly. This gave visual representation of the most common words. 
After we made visualization to see most common words ,  analyzed research titles  by using LDA as  main text analysis method.  LDA does not work directly on text data. First,  converted the documents into a simple vector representation. This representation  then  been used by LDA to determine the topics. From there, we  distinguished what each topic is about 'neural networks', 'reinforcement learning', 'kernel methods', 'gaussian processes'

